page3.md, before:

@def title = "Design Exploration"

```julia:setup
#hideall
using DataFrames
using CSV
using Plots
using StatsPlots
using Statistics
using JSON

plotlyjs(size=(640,330))

bench_data(str) =
  DataFrame(CSV.File(IOBuffer(str), delim=" ", ignorerepeated=true))

saveplot(plt, name="", ext="svg") =
  fdplotly(json(Plots.plotlyjs_syncplot(plt))) # hide
  #savefig(joinpath(@OUTPUT, name * "." * ext))
```

# Design Exploration

Design space exploration is one of the simplest applications of
supercomputing. The idea is to study the impact of a parameter in the
performance of a given design. By dividing the domain of the parameter
among different computing threads, it becomes possible to do multiple
performance evaluations at the same time, each using a different
design generated from a different element of the parameter's domain.

To evaluate the benefits of the approach, we decided to experiment the
design space exploration of a simple truss structure. We were
interested in simulating the behavior of the structure as different
parameters were changed. To have a metric for the structural
performance, we focused on the maximum displacement of the structure's
elements.

Khepri supports two different structural analysis backends, namely
KhepriRobot that connects to Autodesk's Robot and KhepriFrame3DD,
which directly accesses a DLL that wraps Frame3DD, static and dynamic
structural analysis package for 2D and 3D frames, developed by
Prof. Henri P. Gavin of the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering of Duke University. Given that Robot does not work in
non-Windows environments while Frame3DD does not require a graphical
user interface, the choice for Khepri's backend KhepriFrame3DD was
obvious.

Inspired by Gaudi's ideas, we decided to create a truss where each of
the legs is defined by a catenary that connects the legs'
endpoints. The legs are interconnected using different schemes, for
example, just a single bar between corresponding pairs of nodes, or
diagonal bars between pairs of pairs of nodes. To make the example
more interesting, we decided to design a truss made of Bamboo, placed
on a slab with a randomized outline, as follows:

\fig{/VDomeTrussRibsDeform2-frame-000.png}

This means that the truss does not have an axis of symmetry and,
therefore, will be less resistant. For the structural simulation we
used an approximation of the material properties of Bamboo, namely, a
Young's modulus of $E=1.39 GPa$, a Kirchoff's modulus of $G=0.64 GPa$,
and a density of $d=5880.0 Kg/m^3$.

Our first experiment was to test a vertical load of increasing
magnitude being applied to all non-supported truss nodes. The
load started at zero and went up to 100 N. For each load case, the
structure was analyzed by KhepriFrame3DD and the computed truss node
displacements were used to show the shape of the truss under load. To
make the displacement more obvious, we applied a factor of 100. This
means that the actual truss deformation is one hundred times smaller
than what is illustrated. The following movie shows the truss behavior
under increasing load:

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/VDomeTrussRibsDeform2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The entire analysis, containing 200 different load cases whose results
were rendered in Full HD, required 1h46m to generate. One problem we had
was that each structural analysis was entirely sequential and, thus,
could not benefit from multiple CPUs or multiple computing nodes. On
the other hand, it is relevant to mention that, for these examples, the largest fraction of
the time is spent rendering, which is already highly
parallelized and takes full advantage of the 96 CPUs available.

Another experiment was the addition of an horizontal force, which we
established as one tenth of the vertical one. This small addition
considerably impacts the structural behavior of the truss. The
following movie compares the base load case, with this one.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/WDomeTrussRibsDeform23.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The second analysis, again with 200 load cases, took 1h48m. Although
we did the experiments one after the other, it would have been
possible to run them in two different computing nodes, making the
total time just the maximum of both times, i.e., 1h48m instead of
their sum, i.e., 3h34m.

On a further experiment, we studied the impact of the truss bars'
radius on the structural performance. The following movie illustrates
the behavior of a truss that is loaded with a constant force of -10N
on each truss node and where the radius of the truss bars goes from
3cm to 5mm. The entire analysis was completed in 1h03m.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeformRadiusW35.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

To have a different perspective on the truss behavior, observe the
following movie that more clearly shows the radius reduction and its
effect on the structure shape under load.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeformRadius.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The previous analysis required 1h04m to produce. Again, it would have
been possible to explore multiple computing nodes, to execute multiple
analysis at the same time. In fact, the limitation is
not the computing power available but rather the human power
available, as the motivation for further analyses only emerges
after studying the results of the previous ones.

Finally, we decided to do a different design space exploration: this
time, instead of exploring one design parameter, we explored different
truss topologies. The difference lies in the bracings between nodes,
as illustrated in the following image:

\fig{/TrussTopology}

Although the two images on the right look very similar, they are
different, as the one at the bottom has two independent bar connecting
alternating nodes, while the top one has one extra node on the
crossing between bars, effectively making them four independent bars
connected at that extra node. This has a considerable effect on the
truss' structural behavior as it makes it hinders its resistance to
compressive forces.

The behavior of the different truss topologies is illustrated in the
following movie. All trusses were subjected to the same load case, an
increasingly larger vertical force and an horizontal force that is one
tenth of the vertical one. Remember that the displacement is amplified
by a factor of 100.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/WDomeTrussRibsDeform6789.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

Seen from the inside of the structure, the behavior seems a bit more
impressive, as is visible in the following movie:

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeform6789.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

It is interesting to note that, with one exception, these different
topologies take approximately the same time to evaluate, slightly
under one hour. The exception is the structure at the top right
corner, which has significantly more bars and nodes than the others,
which causes KhepriFrame3DD to take an inordinate amount of time to
analyze the structure (7h33m). Just in case, we repeated the four
simulations twice but the results came almost exactly the same.

Given that the structural analysis is single threaded but chained
with the rendering, which is multi-threaded, the best we can do is to
analyze multiple cases in different computing nodes. The total time,
though, is the maximum, that is, 7h33.

#
[<< Previous Chapter](/page2/)

[Next Chapter >>](/page4/)

Commit message:

Added film to explain the scale factor.

page3.md, after:

@def title = "Design Exploration"

```julia:setup
#hideall
using DataFrames
using CSV
using Plots
using StatsPlots
using Statistics
using JSON

plotlyjs(size=(640,330))

bench_data(str) =
  DataFrame(CSV.File(IOBuffer(str), delim=" ", ignorerepeated=true))

saveplot(plt, name="", ext="svg") =
  fdplotly(json(Plots.plotlyjs_syncplot(plt))) # hide
  #savefig(joinpath(@OUTPUT, name * "." * ext))
```

# Design Exploration

Design space exploration is one of the simplest applications of
supercomputing. The idea is to study the impact of a parameter in the
performance of a given design. By dividing the domain of the parameter
among different computing threads, it becomes possible to do multiple
performance evaluations at the same time, each using a different
design generated from a different element of the parameter's domain.

To evaluate the benefits of the approach, we decided to experiment the
design space exploration of a simple truss structure. We were
interested in simulating the behavior of the structure as different
parameters were changed. To have a metric for the structural
performance, we focused on the maximum displacement of the structure's
elements.

Khepri supports two different structural analysis backends, namely
KhepriRobot that connects to Autodesk's Robot and KhepriFrame3DD,
which directly accesses a DLL that wraps Frame3DD, static and dynamic
structural analysis package for 2D and 3D frames, developed by
Prof. Henri P. Gavin of the Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering of Duke University. Given that Robot does not work in
non-Windows environments while Frame3DD does not require a graphical
user interface, the choice for Khepri's backend KhepriFrame3DD was
obvious.

Inspired by Gaudi's ideas, we decided to create a truss where each of
the legs is defined by a catenary that connects the legs'
endpoints. The legs are interconnected using different schemes, for
example, just a single bar between corresponding pairs of nodes, or
diagonal bars between pairs of pairs of nodes. To make the example
more interesting, we decided to design a truss made of Bamboo, placed
on a slab with a randomized outline, as follows:

\fig{/VDomeTrussRibsDeform2-frame-000.png}

This means that the truss does not have an axis of symmetry and,
therefore, will be less resistant. For the structural simulation we
used an approximation of the material properties of Bamboo, namely, a
Young's modulus of $E=1.39 GPa$, a Kirchoff's modulus of $G=0.64 GPa$,
and a density of $d=5880.0 Kg/m^3$.

Our first experiment was to test a vertical load of increasing
magnitude being applied to all non-supported truss nodes. The
load started at zero and went up to 100 N. For each load case, the
structure was analyzed by KhepriFrame3DD and the computed truss node
displacements were used to show the shape of the truss under load. Note
that these displacements tend to be miniscule when compared with the
size of the structure. This means that its visualization tend to be
difficult unless we amplify them. The following movie illustrates the
truss behavior under increasing load but where we amplified the displacements
by a factor of ten:

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/VDomeTrussRibsDeform.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

Nota that even with factor of scale of ten, the displacement seems still small, which makes comparisons difficult.  To make the displacement more obvious, we then applied a factor of 100. This
means that the actual truss deformation is one hundred times smaller
than what is illustrated:

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/VDomeTrussRibsDeform2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The entire analysis, containing 200 different load cases whose results
were rendered in Full HD, required 1h46m to generate. One problem we had
was that each structural analysis was entirely sequential and, thus,
could not benefit from multiple CPUs or multiple computing nodes. On
the other hand, it is relevant to mention that, for these examples, the largest fraction of
the time is spent rendering, which is already highly
parallelized and takes full advantage of the 96 CPUs available.

Another experiment was the addition of an horizontal force, which we
established as one tenth of the vertical one. This small addition
considerably impacts the structural behavior of the truss. The
following movie compares the base load case, with this one.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/WDomeTrussRibsDeform23.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The second analysis, again with 200 load cases, took 1h48m. Although
we did the experiments one after the other, it would have been
possible to run them in two different computing nodes, making the
total time just the maximum of both times, i.e., 1h48m instead of
their sum, i.e., 3h34m.

On a further experiment, we studied the impact of the truss bars'
radius on the structural performance. The following movie illustrates
the behavior of a truss that is loaded with a constant force of -10N
on each truss node and where the radius of the truss bars goes from
3cm to 5mm. The entire analysis was completed in 1h03m.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeformRadiusW35.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

To have a different perspective on the truss behavior, observe the
following movie that more clearly shows the radius reduction and its
effect on the structure shape under load.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeformRadius.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

The previous analysis required 1h04m to produce. Again, it would have
been possible to explore multiple computing nodes, to execute multiple
analysis at the same time. In fact, the limitation is
not the computing power available but rather the human power
available, as the motivation for further analyses only emerges
after studying the results of the previous ones.

Finally, we decided to do a different design space exploration: this
time, instead of exploring one design parameter, we explored different
truss topologies. The difference lies in the bracings between nodes,
as illustrated in the following image:

\fig{/TrussTopology}

Although the two images on the right look very similar, they are
different, as the one at the bottom has two independent bar connecting
alternating nodes, while the top one has one extra node on the
crossing between bars, effectively making them four independent bars
connected at that extra node. This has a considerable effect on the
truss' structural behavior as it makes it hinders its resistance to
compressive forces.

The behavior of the different truss topologies is illustrated in the
following movie. All trusses were subjected to the same load case, an
increasingly larger vertical force and an horizontal force that is one
tenth of the vertical one. Remember that the displacement is amplified
by a factor of 100.

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/WDomeTrussRibsDeform6789.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

Seen from the inside of the structure, the behavior seems a bit more
impressive, as is visible in the following movie:

~~~
<video width="700" controls>
  <source src="http://web.ist.utl.pt/antonio.menezes.leitao/ADA/SuperComputingFilms/DomeTrussRibsDeform6789.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
~~~

It is interesting to note that, with one exception, these different
topologies take approximately the same time to evaluate, slightly
under one hour. The exception is the structure at the top right
corner, which has significantly more bars and nodes than the others,
which causes KhepriFrame3DD to take an inordinate amount of time to
analyze the structure (7h33m). Just in case, we repeated the four
simulations twice but the results came almost exactly the same.

Given that the structural analysis is single threaded but chained
with the rendering, which is multi-threaded, the best we can do is to
analyze multiple cases in different computing nodes. The total time,
though, is the maximum, that is, 7h33.

#
[<< Previous Chapter](/page2/)

[Next Chapter >>](/page4/)
